Companion forum thread to: Yama Mountain Gear 1P Cirriform Min Tarp Review The Yama Mountain Gear 1P Cirriform Min Tarp ($210 in silpoly) is a one-person, 2-trekking pole, side/end-entry full-perimeter tarp shelter. Nice overview. It’s surprising to read Ryan’s report of subpar performance in winds over 15 mph, considering the good reputation this shelter has online for general wind-worthiness. Gen does say the long version is more prone to catching wind than the regular length though.  I can’t recall any review I’ve read stating the Cirriform is anything but rock solid in wind. Here are some videos that are supposed to be 25 mph with 40 mph gusts according to the person who made the videos: https://photos.google.com/shaYama Mountain Gear Cirriform VS Zpacks Hexamid-Solo. 25 MPH Winds – GIFs – Imgurre/AF1QipMvXCSJptgd6hOcePEzIuE0jgKNKiPDbNT8Cfq4XUB9kTmq6hS86hhDvQGNdm1j_w?key=WXh3Zmk0ekF0YnB5YU9hRm5MbE0wMzZqTHpHX0Jn DCF Cirriform: https://imgur.com/gallery/8lWWsjf  I guess we’ve all read the same reviews/comments here and there about the robust storm protection. Perhaps this just underlines the importance of measured wind speed. Indeed, I get downright ecstatic to see references to measured wind speed. Even mentioning that one did not have access to an anemometer, as Iago does in this review, is an important step towards recognizing the importance of measurement. In his supplemental comments to the review, Ryan suggests that the A-frame design inherently limits wind resistance: There’s just too much unsupported fabric between the foot and head end of the tent for it to remain stable in anything but the lightest winds. That’s not a criticism of the brand or model, just the nature of an A-frame style like this. But in a separate thread, Ryan appears to suggest that the Slingfin Splitwing, an A-frame model made in a high performance sil/sil silnylon fabric, may perform better: it pitches tight, stays tight, and is really strong (minimal flapping in high winds). Perhaps this difference could be addressed somewhere later on. The similar designed Trekkertent Stealth has a supreme reputation for wind worthiness. All the countless testimonials about how it performs in the persistent Scottish winds can’t be wrong. A low profile, cat cuts and a swooping trapezoidal shape make it more aerodynamic than most other 2 trekking pole shelters. I like the way the front doors form a wedge the way the HMG Echo and Slingfin does. Can’t say why Ryan’s test showed poor wind performance of the Mini Cirriform. Does seem surprising. Just look at the Stealth. It doesn’t appear to be an A frame that inherently limits wind resistance.    The Splitwing has two midpanel perimeter tieouts per long side. And both the Splitwing and the Stealth have a tie-out up on the panel, the Cirriform does not. Although that feels a little Band Aid-ish to me. I wonder how much the fabric plays into it. Yama uses recycled silpoly I think from RBTR, which does have some stretch according to Yama. (Back to that old chestnut, Jon!) Yup, I’ve definitely noticed that those 20D silpolys from RBTR are a bit lacking in spine, so to speak (I have shelters made from them). Hence, the chestnuts…  Huh, I just received this same setup last week. I needed to add another 1p shelter to the xmid I already have. I’m going to wait until there’s some decent wind and rain in the forecast and set them both up side by side to see how they compare in wind and stretch. It’s an A-frame tarp. Good for rain and light wind. Set up properly, even light snow. Inherent in the design. Good shelter when matched to the environmental conditions. I’ve used the Stealth1 in super windy conditions in Scotland and Iceland and it has always done a great job. Maybe because of the pointed shape of the vestibule it does a much better job at shedding wind than the rather flat front of the Yama? (or that’s the way it looks in the pictures) BTW, surprised the Stealth1 was not mentioned in the overview. As one of the $7 club members, I was unable to read the OP’s post. However, I have owned the Stealth 1 and the Cirriform long with regular net tent, albeit both for a short time. The following is my opinion. Stealth. I like the Stealth for being able to spike it to the ground. Footprint too small fo me as a front entry. The included inner is front entry and is hard on my knee bones. I tried a side entry inner with a third stick to porch one side. Worked ok but not optimum since it’s not designed for this. I believe a Stealth 1.5 with a small inner would be fine. I would have liked the length of the fly to be a foot longer. BPWD La Garita is a similar shaped tarp. Tried their 2P but quality was a disaster. YMG. I tried the Cirriform long, because the extra 6″ is an extra 6″. The 1P net tent is almost perfect on many levels. The eight inch bathtub is pretty much needed since the tarp pitches about eight inches AFF. I really wanted to like this two piece kit. I prefer a tarp that can spike tight to the ground, or not, as long as it is my choice. While both pieces are each great, they really only work with each other. The tarp could be used with a regular bivy and pitched lower to the ground. But it’s a hands-n-knees ordeal. The net tent could be used with having the bathtub shorter but the extra fabric might be on a minds eye as an annoyance. Thats about it. My experiences with both. I didn’t have much time with each. Perhaps just enough time to know they weren’t for me. And the band played on.. My go to, checks all the boxes, shelter keeps going back to the X-Mid 1. I’m also playing with a SD High Route 1 and the High Route 3000. The SD blue-yellow-white doesn’t work for me so I ordered the 3000 from the UK. Important note is Skurka himself said the HR 1 and the X-Mid are different animals. So we won’t go there. I’ll find his quote &if needed. Drifting… off…. topic… ~RL